and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't done
so yet check out my weekly email where
i'm sharing actual website marketing
tips useful podcasts free goodies
resources and much much more each and
every monday so you can kickstart your
week off with a bang give it a shot over
at businessgrowth.email
so joining me today i've got jessie
lizac she's the chief marketing officer
over at fedex podcast host at whiskey
wednesdays and also host over at
deconstructing data jesse a very warm
welcome how you doing
great how are you
happy to be very good for having me
yeah likewise looking forward to
chatting and we're going to be talking
about an interesting one today we're
going to be chatting why b2b lead gen
should be for the sales team
and not for the marketing team going to
talk about how marketing is evolving and
kind of different angles of what you
believe sales and marketing should be
considering in 2022 and beyond so
first and foremost i thought marketing
was supposed to to supply the sales team
with leads what's what's the score there
jesse
yeah that's a great question
so this can be kind of controversial you
know but it really shouldn't be um but i
think the way to really start thinking
about it is to think about
history and how we got here and i'm just
gonna take us back to like say 2014
2015. so you know if we go back to 2014
and 2015 and we think about sales and
marketing we think about marketing
supplying sales with with leads right
mql that's their goal that's their
metric they're supposed to go out and
they're supposed to bring in leads and
this is when we got into gated content
um and marketing would do anything by
any means just to get an email address
right yeah
just to get a name um and it didn't
matter whether they were ready to buy
now or not but just the fact that we
could get that email address and sell
the sell to them for years to come had
value to it
but fast forward to now times have
changed
data is available we have tools such as
zoom info seamless
lead magic you know there's like there's
a million different tools um that you
can use to
equip your sales team with to go out and
find that data themselves so marketing
doesn't have to gate our content we can
put our best content out there for
people to actually read
um and you know one thing we can do even
is drop a pixel on that content and you
know you don't have to gate it anymore
you can still see the activity you're
generating
and so
you know if we
start stop
measuring marketing success
on leads
then we will start to see
more demand generation and so that's
where we're we're moving into now so
what i tell my sales team at vdex it's
like if you guys want leads i can bring
you leads all day long but i don't
really think that's what you want i
think it's marketing's job to filter
those leads we want qualified
educated leads who are reading the ebook
um and who are seeing our best content
and then coming in ready to buy so
that's the goal so you know with zoom
info for example your sales team they
can go find their icp they can use sales
sequences to reach out to their icp they
can make those phone calls marketing can
target them with ads so that is modern
day legion
um
nice
so with that said jesse what is your
definition of
a lead i suppose that's
sales ready so it's actually ready to
have a buying conversation and talk
business as opposed to something that
your sales team can just quickly
research and then
put through their process whether that's
email mark whether it's kind of email
sequence or giving a cold call or
whatever they choose to do
i think there's really two ingredients
that
a marketer needs to aim for
and that is closing the trust gap that's
ingredient number one and it's educating
your lead so that should be the
difference between your sales cold leads
that they're pulling out of zoom info
and those leads that are coming in on
your web forms on your website so
ideally marketing is on linkedin like we
are now
building relationships with people
sharing expert content
so that they see us as the ones who who
know everything so then when they're
ready to buy
they know us and they're ready to come
in and we've closed that trust gap
those are the two pieces trust gap and
then education you need to have good
content that's where the demand gen
piece comes in podcasts
ebooks blogs give them information that
is valuable that educates them don't
just sit there and write an ebook about
your company and packages package it up
as educational
that's not educational you know what
your audience wants to actually learn is
not about your business it's how they're
going to succeed so that's what you want
to teach them
yeah yeah yeah that and that makes sense
right actually giving something that's
valuable to your buyer what's in it for
them kind of how can you fix their
problem how can you make their life
better how can actually improve
something they care about doing and i
want to jump into some actionables that
perhaps you've you've done for your
business is that you've seen work that
our audience can steal in a sec and
but i suppose it'd be quite interesting
to know what's the cutoff as in
where does sales stop and marketing
begin or vice versa in terms of if cell
should be kind of prospecting and kind
of finding the lead lists and and
generating conversations that way um
what are marketing actually doing are
they just kind of putting out a bit of
content on linkedin and hoping for the
best and then when when something closes
they take all the credit
no
but you know there is that out it's it's
different right now because shoppers we
think about today's buyer we just went
through a pandemic right so how have we
been shopping for the last couple years
we've been looking online we've been
doing our research
um you know you can go online and you
can buy a house if you want to and you
can get all the information about that
house i mean i literally did it myself
never stop foot in this house before my
husband and i bought it we were kind of
crazy oh wow but literally we could find
a guided tour we could find the history
of like all the different prices it was
ever sold for we could like you know
there's so much information online and
your b2b buyers want the same thing if
they can buy their house online they
want to be able to buy their software
online too and research it and get all
the information about it before they
actually close so now we have marketing
you know yes we're putting out content
we're doing that top of the funnel stuff
but once it falls into the funnel we
need to be able to understand that buyer
journey so that we can make sure that
we're directing the buyer to the right
place with the right information that
they're seeking
um so that they can just
click to upgrade because ideally you
know it at this point um you know once
they're in the buyer journey
um it becomes sales assisted right so
sales can still be involved marketing is
also still involved because a lot of the
time those purchases will happen on the
website so you know we are still
involved down down through the funnel
but it's a team effort and i think
communication is key because as sales is
assisting the buyers through this
journey
right we are getting so much valuable
information hopefully you know they're
um the marketers are sitting in on those
calls
i know you know a lot of marketers want
to be sitting in on those calls but
there's also a lot of marketers who
don't i think that's more common is you
get marketers who are like i don't want
to sit in on sales calls but honestly
you don't need to sit in on all of them
but to be able to sit on a few of them
that's where you're going to get the
most valuable information
um firsthand out of the customer's voice
itself like of course sales needs to be
able to communicate that stuff to us
because we're not going to be there for
all those calls
but that's where you know
working together and communicating come
hand in hand so it's not just sales it's
not just marketing it's both that have
to work together and they have to be
able to communicate
got it gotcha so you raised an
interesting point jesse talking about
self-service on the b2b front and i
think a lot of b2b companies this is
quite controversial but that probably
scares the daylights out of them because
they think well i want all i want this
visitor to do is go on my website and
then click request a demo or request a
call and then i want my sales team to
speak to them and then i want to sell to
them right um whereas if people can
actually go on the site which i think is
fine for some software as a solution
some sas companies where you've perhaps
got maybe a lower level solution and
let's say it's lower ticket and the
prospect this is my own opinion right
i'm not saying this is gospel but this
let's say a prospect lands on a site
they can learn about what you do maybe
they've been consuming your content
maybe they found you on google whatever
they've headed to your site they've
learned a bit more about what you do how
you can help them maybe look at case
studies they jump to your pricing page
they see
three or four tiers maybe you're a sas
provider twenty dollars a month fifty
dollars a month hundred dollars a month
whatever they pick an option finely
purchased but
when we're talking higher level
solutions
typically if you've got an enterprise
level company
maybe you need 10 seats or more for a
product you usually have to talk to a
sales rep
and do you think that these kind of
higher level where we're talking about
thousands of dollars per month tens of
thousands even for some products as
opposed to a few hundred bucks
do you think those should be self-serve
or what what's your stance on that side
of things because i think that's quite
an interesting combo and i see i can see
that in years down the line you might be
able to buy big products online in the
b2b environment but i'm curious to know
what you think not even down the line
people can do this stuff now um right
you know and even
you know
look at beat x's pricing page our
smallest tier starts at 2500
um and so
it's not just those smaller ones anymore
just like a house i was mentioning a
house earlier that's the biggest
purchase some people make in their
entire lives
for sure but people are comfortable
enough now
that
they just shop online they want to get
that information
and that's why i was mentioning the
trust gap earlier you know there's
when you have someone coming at you cold
you have to
build that trust with them
then you have to get educated by them
um you know so
i think even when you're dealing with
thousands of dollars and at that level
it's the same situation because the
buyer experience has changed all around
for everyone now there will still be
people who
you know want who will never purchase
something like that online and that's
completely understandable
um and so that's why you know we have to
just you know you have to you have to
have it all right you have to put it out
there for the people who are ready to
buy online and have your pricing page
and have everything ready but you do
need to have sales assistance like
that's what i keep talking about is
sales assistance because even your buyer
who's going to pull the trigger over a
phone call or an email or a video chat
they're likely still going to google you
and they're likely to google your
competitors and they're like they're
going to google your reviews and they're
likely going to look at your pricing
page so um you know like all this stuff
still matters where they end up pulling
the trigger matters you know a little
less
um
but yeah i think we still have to think
the same way whether you have a large
budget or a small budget
sure sure
building a product or you know less
expensive product
yeah and like you mentioned building
trust is uh is a key one
so because without that no one's gonna
buy your stuff
and
so
yeah i was talking about this actually
on linkedin the other day
and comparing a few different kind of
personas for example if someone's been
following you whether you've got your
own kind of strong personal brand on
linkedin or you've got a strong company
brand been following you for a while
i was saying my thoughts were because
they've built so much trust they've
followed your content perhaps for months
and years it doesn't actually matter as
long as your website's not terrible and
it gives a clear idea of what you do how
you help gives an idea of pricing
they're probably still gonna
go ahead or speak to sales or request a
demo whatever that next step is because
you've got the trust there whereas if
someone's coming in cold
perhaps they've had an intro call from a
sales rep and then they're researching
you perhaps they've just seen a cold ad
on facebook or linkedin and then they're
checking out this perspective is
completely different right because
they're seeing your brand or hearing
about your brand for the first time
and they have no idea who the heck you
are they might find you on a google
search too
what do you think what do you believe
are some elements that are important
when it comes to building trust with
buyers
oh
so
that's a great question and i think that
a big part of it is
just be a nice person you know just uh
be human
um
people can see through the fakeness now
don't just come at them out of the gate
talking about you talking about your
company
it's just like building a relationship
in any human situation
um you know it's like i use the analogy
of dating so like or getting married
like you're not gonna propose to someone
on your first date
or at least most people don't
um so why would you uh you know
pitch someone on the first impression
and so you know that right there
if someone proposed to me on the first
day i would be highly skeptical
um and my trust wouldn't be closing
so if someone picks me on that first
impression without understanding me what
i need what i'm working on why i might
need this
then i'm going to be skeptical
so you know in terms of closing the gap
i think it just comes down to being
human and not being a fake salesy person
who's just going to come out and pitch
everybody right it's building
relationships it's also demonstrating
that you're an expert
so you know i will go out and make
social posts about data today i made a
post about zero party data first party
data second party data now that's a very
you know basic um post for someone in
the industry who's already you know knee
deep in data but for maybe our buyer in
the next five years they may not know
these things
so i'm starting to close the truss gap
with them i may not even know them but
they're reading that post and they're
seeing me as an expert
um and so i think that's one thing that
starts to close the trust gap because
who do we want to trust you know we want
to trust those people who know what
they're doing like a doctor we're not
just going to go trust anybody to
diagnose us with you know whatever our
health ailments are so you know it's the
same thing we don't want to go trust
some random person we've never met to
advise us on our business software um
same thing
so i think it just comes down to being a
nice person
um you know definitely not being
condescending or talking down to people
it's all about lifting them up
making them feel good about themselves
because they may not remember anything
you say but they will remember how you
make them feel
yeah yeah i like that summary i like
that summary so
it's interesting and i know i've bought
from people that i've perhaps followed
on social i mean the main one i hang out
on linkedin so i've quite literally
bought from people just because i
followed them for so long and trusted so
much in what they've shared just because
they're sharing actionable practical
practical tips each day on their area of
expertise in their industry that i kind
of after six months or so i thought well
this person is the go-to for their
sector purely because i see them every
day in their feed and what they're
sharing is actually helpful and then
eventually when i need their their
service i went to them um
so yeah that's that's interesting i mean
taking this
to to kind of some actionable examples
jesse and and feel free to use what
you've done at bdx or what you've what
you've found working for you any other
company in the past what do you think
are some of the
most relevant go to marketing go to
market b2b strategies that you feel that
businesses should be
really putting into play right now
you know i think the number one strategy
is to
not just listen to someone like me and
hear what i'm doing
honestly the number one strategy is to
you know think of the basics
who is your audience
so think of your ideal customer profile
where are they where is your audience
residing where can you easily
segment and reach your audience
so
you know i think for me and what i do it
comes down to that so we are b2b here at
bdx
and so linkedin allows me to target
people based on their job titles
and talk to them about what they're
doing in the workplace so for example
instagram may not be as valuable for bdx
um and so i think you know it comes down
to understanding your audience don't
forget don't forget the basics so that's
always number one um
but you know i think we're at a tipping
point right now where things are
changing and people are bored and b2b is
boring so one thing i try to do is bring
a little fun into it
that's bringing fun into your content by
simply just doing videos instead of
images like people want to hear people
talking you know do things a little
different get on tick-tock like you got
to try and test new things um
but you know you all you do still have
to like continue to do those things that
that still work so like we have a
newsletter we do email we do video
um you know and recycle your content
that's a big one i'm a solo marketer we
have a couple freelancers who help us
but
i can't do everything so if i do one
podcast that podcast is going to be on
linkedin as a live it's going to be on
spotify it's going to be on youtube and
then i'm going to cut it up into about
two or four clips that can be shared and
posted by multiple different people and
then in a couple of months we might do
that whole thing all over again with
that same exact podcast
you can also go listen to it pull
content out of it and make a post
um
so you know i guess
yeah i for me
that it's revisioning like
what are people where are you where is
your audience and what do they want to
consume and think about them first and
don't listen to some guru like me to say
hey your strategy should be linkedin ads
and then you should go over and you need
to have hubspot and you need to make
sure that you're grabbing this date no
like that all sounds great and i know
that's what we all want because that
would make our lives easy right if
something's come tell us exactly
i need the perfect strategy i need it
now yeah exactly yes it's like keep
trying keep testing try new things but i
think the overall general consensus in
b2b in general is stop being so boring
yeah yeah i mean those those are nice
points and i agree with most of them um
i think
the good thing that smaller companies
have as an advantage over larger scale
enterprises as they they're scrappier
so resources go along the way right like
you were saying there and i'm very much
the same as you might record one podcast
then you might chop that up because you
don't necessarily have the funds to
spend tons and tons on a bunch of other
media and content to record something
we'll chop that off into maybe some
video clips on linkedin maybe we'll make
a blog article on it maybe it'll put on
our website maybe then we'll make a
youtube video out of it and we'll do
this and we'll do that and we'll stretch
it and we don't have to get kind of
loads and loads of sign off because we
can just make it happen um exactly so it
means things move faster so you can see
results faster and then
bringing me to your point experimenting
you know i think that's
in my opinion some of the businesses
don't do enough right um because we're
just using webtris as an example i mean
we we know that not every channel that
we're going to market on is is
necessarily going to work
so understanding that especially in a
b2b context with like you said so many
options at your disposal whether it's
linkedin ads whether that's tick tock
ads whether that's going into google ads
whether that's organic seo whether
that's organic social whatever
understanding the market and like you
said understanding where your ideal
client is
what they like consuming whether that's
listening to sales calls that you talked
about earlier understanding kind of
where they actually go to educate
themselves to consume content trying out
those those spaces for whether it's two
three months understanding the market
seeing if they work after a good test if
they do great let's crack on carry on if
they don't well let's let's move on to
the next channel and give that a good
test
exactly
so yeah that's that's good let's let's
uh let's shift this back to the initial
kind of starting point so we're talking
about
we've talked a bit about what what we
believe marketing should focus on so in
terms of kind of what cells
should focus on is it purely kind of
building lists and cold outreach that
you believe or what's what's going to
work with your team
um well you know one of those people who
said like i don't know what i don't know
and i'm not running sales right now i
was a sales manager and i did run sales
the last company i worked at sure
and some of the things that would work
uh you know honestly it's crazy i think
about some of our biggest deals
and some of like the biggest sales we
had at that company
and there was always this just amazing
relationship between the person who was
selling and the person who was buying
you know like six figure deals i'm
thinking of there were just a couple of
them but they were all with people who
the particular sales person at the time
had spent a lot of time getting to know
i mean she could name their dogs she
like it was so for me like it's
it's relationship building you know it's
getting to know people closing that
trust gap um yes and and the other thing
it you can't just be a relationship
builder right you have to also truly
understand
that your product is going to fit for
this person so you have to understand
them what they're working on why they
need it
um and so i think it really just comes
down to those two things like are you
able to understand why this person needs
your product and able to communicate it
yep are you someone that they want to
come to that they want to talk to
um
you know because that that relationship
magic is something that i see i've seen
personally
and a lot of the biggest deals that i've
ever been a part of
um
and you know that sounds fufu and it
sounds magical and again everybody just
wants like what are those step-by-step
things what are those like easy things i
can accomplish building relationship is
not easy
like not everybody can do it and that's
why not everybody is a salesperson
but you have to have empathy you have to
be able to communicate well um and you
have to be able to put others first
yeah yeah some some good points there do
you think that it's important like now
i'm moving forward that
salespeople
have a personal brand whether that's
linkedin twitter somewhere else where
the audience is because i've met people
on both sides of the spectrum right met
sales reps uh kind of killing it making
a solid living and
and they're not even on social and then
vice versa i've met people on the other
end of the spectrum that are posting
daily engaging with the community maybe
doing some calls doing some emails and
then kind of cracking out social and
generating leads from that what are your
thoughts
i think we're still at a transition
point where you can probably get by
without
being on social if you're a salesperson
but
you know i think
that's only going to last a little a
little bit longer so if you are thinking
you're going to be working for another
10 20 years and you're a salesperson and
you're not on social like
you're going to want to do that if
you're retiring you know maybe maybe not
so much sure but the way we are moving
your best sales people are going to be
more like marketers because best sales
people will be on linkedin closing those
trust gaps getting to know people
educating people sharing content
um with people and so
you know i think you can probably get by
right now much easier than you'll be
able to get by in 10 years if you're not
on social media as a salesperson
yeah i mean i can only speak from my
perspective with but
i know that if i wasn't on linkedin i
wouldn't have landed as many deals for
our businesses as we have purely because
i've got a habit of kind of nearly
everyone i speak to my first thought is
okay we've had a chat let's connect with
them on linkedin send them a quick
message then they're in in my
connections so they're probably gonna
see the the stuff i post
every day so eventually that i've seen
so much of me that when they do
eventually will help hopefully they'll
reach out so i think as a as a sales rep
you're kind of almost missing a buck if
you if you don't do that
and like you say moving forward so
one final point jesse before we wrap
things up a common uh common complaint
from the sales team i'm not sure if you
get it over at bdx but i've certainly
had it before is that the
leads the leads aren't good enough or
the leads aren't qualified enough or
they're not ready to buy
what's your top tips for working with
your sales team to actually make sure
that the leads are sales ready
i say an inverted commerce
yeah well my tip is that marketing needs
to go sit in on some of those calls and
this is why we see a lot of
organizations now
moving toward having the sales
development representatives reporting to
marketing and that's more of the trend
now
and that's because marketing needs to be
involved on these top of the funnel
conversations to help improve the
quality of the leads that they're
bringing in it's not just they can be
there to be seen or to be heard in fact
the majority of marketers like i said
earlier they don't even want to go on
those calls so you're going to have to
force it but that's where you're going
to get it like that is how you're gonna
get
more information to write more content
to produce more videos so that you know
you're saying what those top of the
funnel leads want to hear
yeah and is there any any examples are
we talking about kind of
listening in for things like common
questions that buyers ask we're talking
about listening to objections or is
there any kind of golden nuggets you
tend to look out for
yeah i mean i think it's all of those
things and also just like
you can kind of listen in on the call
for those like hesitation periods you
know like
what what kind of slowed the
conversation down or what stopped it
from moving forward right what what kind
of content could i have had
what like i always leave those calls
thinking what could we have done
beforehand what we would like this
person to have seen beforehand that
would have made this conversation easier
yeah i like that
yeah yeah yeah
yeah that's good i mean at the end of
the day that kind of stuff
makes everyone's life easier right
because if you're putting out this
content it's
one it's actually content that your
buyers care about because they're
raising those questions on sales calls
secondly it's probably going to help you
generate more kind of sales qualified
leads in the long run and thirdly it's
actually helping your sales team because
it means they're going to spend less
time answering those questions the
chances are the buyers have either
consumed that content or they can
literally say well before our next call
i'll point you to this podcast or i'll
point you to this blog or this webinar
where we actually cover this in detail
so then you can have a watch or a read
of this and then we can catch up kind of
next wednesday on our next call and we
can kind of go through the next steps so
it's a win-win by the sounds of it
absolutely
awesome jesse look really appreciate the
chat it's been good to talk all things
kind of why b2b lead gen should be down
to sales and and not marketing so with
that said please do tell everyone more
about how they can learn from you
connect with you and the best way to get
in touch well thank you so much sam i am
glad to be here and if you would love to
get in touch with me or even just like
to get in touch with me um you can do so
i'm always on linkedin so you can find
jesse
j-e-s-s-i-e-lisac on linkedin i've been
in the comments of this post so you can
probably find me there and click on me
otherwise you can email me at jessie
beadex.com
awesome we'll put all of those links and
over at the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing and with that i
want to thank you once again for coming
on jesse thank you so much
no worries and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode why not give us quick
rating if you're on the audio podcast or
quick subscribe on youtube and with that
said i should catch you on the next
episode appreciate you tuning in